# CTC
Contemporary Trends in Communication Essay "Digital World is more real than the offline version?"

This question has grown its relevancy since the social networks had a boom. The use of this media became revolutionary as it has been proven that helps to the sense of belongness of many people. It provides a platform for those whose tiny voice in the physical world hasn't been heard. This kind of innovation responds to the needs of both, the very specific groups of people and the big picture in society. Innovation is an interactive process, the new product meets the new needs of people and viceversa, the new product evolves because of the participation and use of the consumers (Prahalad and Ramaswamy, 2004; Vargo and Lusch, 2004; von Hippel, 2005). A new technology and system like social media meets the new need of participation that the human has. After ethnographic reaserch show that nature is not just a reality that is given and  that is external to the individuals. The concept of nature is also part of an on-going cultural discourse that shapes it. Consumers try to view the concept of nature through its three essential features: the sublime, the sacred and the primitive (Canniford and Shankar, 2013). However, these features are constantly challenged by contrasting experience.

The emergence of social networking sites has created a problem of how the self is to be understood in the online world. 
As these sites are social, they relate someone with others in a network. Thus there seems to emerge a new kind of self which exists in the online world. As the use of online social media has become more widespread, the line between the two kinds of self is becoming fuzzier. _(Soraj Hongladarom, 2011)_
There is a dark side to our perception that what happens on the Web stays on the Web. We think we could take part in some innocent amateur online sleuthing without any offline consequences. We were wrong – because, in many cases, there is no such thing between online and offline. We create entirely separate identities, believing that our various selves will never cross paths. According to digital dualism, the “real” world is offline, while the online realm is a shadow of that reality. The digital world brings some risks to our life.
There is upsides and downsides to this dualism. There are many advantages as well as disadvantages. For example, social media has helped to raise funds for the needed and find missing persons; however sometimes uploading any information leads to its usage in the non-virtual world. Kidnappings, robbery and similar have happened becuase of the misusage of what is found in the digital world.

Virtual worlds today are largely social in nature, people enter these worlds in order to meet other people and build connections with them through shared experiences. As in the real world, social interactions in virtual worlds revolve around self-expression. 
Compared to the real world, self-expression in virtual worlds is limited; missing rich sources of information taken for granted in the real world, such as scent, body language, and the telltale signs of daily wear and tear. It’s not that these sources of information were forgotten, just that they are difficult to emulate in meaningful ways in the virtual world. 

One of the main issues of the digital world is the vacancy problem, which is the noticeable and profound absence of a person from one world, while they are participating in the other. The vacancy problem appears because people do not currently have the means to be in more than one place (reality) at a time. In the real world, the vacancy problem takes the form of people appearing completely absorbed in them-selves, ignoring everything else. In the virtual world, the vacancy problem takes the form of virtual metropolises appearing nearly empty because there are not enough avatars to fill them. 

“Dual reality,” defined as an environment result from the interplay between the real world and the virtual world, is bi-directional; while both worlds are complete unto themselves, they are also enriched by their ability to mutually reflect, influence, and merge into one another. 
The goal may not be, and probably should not be, to replicate all aspects of the real world, but rather only those that facilitate the interaction in a virtual environment. 
